Welcome to AVE testing podcast your modern testing podcast your hosts Alan and Brent will be here to guide you through
Topics on testing leadership agile and anything else that comes to mind now on with the show. Happy New Year, Brent
Happy New Year to you Alan. Alright, if you're gonna type
do it while you're not talking don't type and talk at the same time because
Normally when you type during the podcast I can strip it out later
But if you're talking off strip out you're talking to you and in fact, I wonder if we should just do a podcast
Without you what that would be like
I don't know if I would have enough things to say because you inspire me so much anyway
as I was saying Happy New Year and
Try and try and make my editing job a little easier if you would okay. Yeah, welcome to
22 1 everyone. Oh
My god, yeah, we had this discussion last time I I want to talk about you know, I'm not big into
Gifts in this time here. In fact, we barely exchanged any gifts at all, but I bought myself some presents
one thing
Similar to Microsoft, you know Microsoft had a
What'd they call it?
What's the budget that paid for your gym membership?
You took Microsoft. What was that called?
That's now called a
Base health wellness something like that budget
We have a health wellness thing, but especially with the gyms all being closed
They got very lenient on what we're allowed to purchase with that allotment
Step counters or watches that do step counting are good. So I have a new you can see it in the oh
And the zoom which only brain can see but it's a nice new galaxy s3
I also picked up a set of the galaxy buds, which I really which is the their version of the air pods
I really really like I wear them all the time a lot of fun
So I'm pretty happy there. Those were my presents. I think I bought some about some
Shorts and stuff and it was pretty cool. That was my Christmas to myself or
holiday whatever
Flavor you wish to observe. Oh, oh and before I forget, you know
I'm just gonna put words in your mouth the whole time. Remember when you said that
Trump would win and America would burn and I said no Biden will win and America will burn and so
I
You were half right and I was entirely right
Yeah, yeah
Yay America America. Hell yeah
Since we're waxing political
Just briefly briefly
The one is not people for pressing that fast-forward 30 seconds button too often. I will say
That at this moment in time
I'm not a fan of Georgia. I think it is universally a bad thing in
In a world where there's a two-party system
where
One party has all of the power. I am fully confident that will change in two years
multiple things to disagree with there one is
we have a former president who is
Entirely at fault for losing all those things if he wouldn't have been such a shithead
Perhaps that wouldn't have happened
Second of all to do
Second of all
remember libertarian
Anytime you bash any of the parties I'm gonna wholly agree with ya. I know small. Yeah. Yeah, I get that but it's
Which again being a libertarian the two-party system is is I've got to watch my language here broken for you
I mean you can vote for your candidate, but you want you want more than anyone ranked choice voting
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and
Unfortunately even having I mean Republicans do not want ranked choice voting
Look what it did to them in Georgia
Their candidates were ahead, but they had to have the runoff because they didn't get 50% and not exactly ranked choice
But but a variant of it their candidates were ahead and they had to have the runoff and their candidates got beat
Republicans do not want anything that remotely looks like ranked choice voting
Unfortunately electoral college anything to do with the Constitution
Voting like to rank choice voting is not gonna happen with the mere 50% of the Senate
So nothing's changing despite having one party in charge of all three things
But I mean, this is the way the system works if one party
craps all over the bed in Congress in the Senate in the house and the
Presidency, of course, they're gonna lose all three of those. It's inevitable. What's gonna happen as a result of it. Not a whole lot
unfortunately, I think I do not go to the
Extremist I'll just teasing you of libertarianism. I never even considered myself a political party
Until I was called a libtard for believing everyone should be treated fairly
Whatever every time presidential election comes about and primaries come about I take the little quiz
Offered by so many sites that tells me which candidate I mostly align with and that's who I align with until I know they have
No chance of winning for whatever reasons. I don't care about identifying with the political party
but unfortunately the last four years I've been told by
People on the internet, of course that I belong to a party only because I think things should be fair
So that bugs me I don't care if you're libertarian Democrat communist Republican socialist, whatever
I just want to be able to vote for people who share the views of what I want to have happen to the environment
I live in. Yeah, no the issue already is that
that the
The way you've defined it
It's unknowable because the dip the each party has their own definition of what is fair
Right. That's that's the issue
From so from my perspective the the Democrat Party
they define
Fairness sort of from an equivalency of experience. Yeah, and again, I don't want to go into this
I I am NOT I'm not like yeah, Biden. He's gonna be awesome. I'm not in that camp
I'm in the camp of thank God the idiot is out of there the
senile
narcissistic
Homophobic racist idiot is out of the office and we could have somebody forgot misogynistic. I didn't forget it. I was just
Trying to trying to get on from the topic. But got it. Yeah, I I
Unfortunately, the painful part is I don't expect a big change
I do hope some things get better. That's the best I can hope for
so
Yeah, anything I got topics
I got like four topics written down on my notebook for us to fly through in an order
It topics that we have briefly mentioned to each other but not in an order you're expecting so
You have some things you want to cover first before we get into the the meat and this is where we if you fast
Forwarded to here. We're almost ready to start go ahead
Right. The the only thing I'll cover is
Hey everyone, welcome to the the new year or the the first episode of the year
episode number 132
It is 132 and this is not an ad break because we're not breaking anywhere
But one thing I'm happy went seamless as far as I can tell without screwing anybody up is I
Migrated the podcast away from self hosting on angry weasel calm
You can't tell there's a 301 redirect that sends your RSS feed to anchor FM where our podcast is now hosted
It makes some things a little bit easier for us. We'll talk about those throughout the year one is I guess the main one is
I don't end up overflowing my allotted disk space because anchor will host it for free and they'll take care of all the stuff of
Propagating the podcast to whatever podcast
Site you'd like to download your podcast from so all that's cool in the longer term if and when we do have advertising
Or if we do have a listener
Sponsorship in any way they'll take a little cut of that which is why they do all that for free
But in the meantime, it's just free. We'll figure out all the rest as we go as we mentioned in 131
AB testing is an LLC. I
We collect any money I get from modern testing things related or Brent gets
Put it into our bank account that Brent doesn't have access to and we'll use that money for we're pretty set on equipment for now
But we can do we'll spend now that we don't have hosting costs
I guess we'll use that money for again for scholarships for things that come up things ways we can give back to the community
So that's my not and my ad not an ad anchor FM
Let's go ahead and get into the meat of the show should have like a theme that goes right here and
Then when people want to fast forward to a match start talking about things they care about
They know to listen for that music. I have podcasts where I do that. So
What I wrote down these one-word hints on what I was going to talk to you about
But now I can't tell what they say. Give me a moment
So the first thing is I can't remember if this was out when we did our last podcast or not
But I gave did we talk about my talk at test flicks? Yeah
I'm pretty sure we talked about you were about
To deliver it. Okay. Well, it was just a recording the idea was it's really cool
A hundred or so eight-minute talks they just didn't so you could binge on short test talks
I gave one on teaching developers how to test
Based on years of practice and experience nothing I've making up. It's all practical knowledge
things I mentioned on the podcast before it's I called the caring sharing and pairing or something like that, but
Pairing with them learning to coach them ask the right question teach them how to test I posted on LinkedIn
That my talk is now available
Lots of positive reactions positive comments and I got a few
Comments worth talking about here. I don't know if you're watching on Twitter for me to talk about this
So this may be all new for you. Did you observe any of this?
No, I saw I saw reference to it on the select channel. Yeah. Yeah
What yeah, what happened was
First off someone jumped on and said
This talk would be a lot more effective. We talked about what testing is
And I
To me, I mean that from a mile away is clickbait for the testing checking conversation
And that's where it went. Yeah, okay, and a couple people jumped all over it and
They posted the link to the checking versus testing article, which I want to talk about in a little bit
and
various other
B&B articles and I wasn't sure like I
Don't agree with these articles, but what relevance do they have and
What it came down to and I finally dug through the game of 20 questions
was
There was a belief among these folks and I know exactly where this comes from
But I want to get your opinion before we dive into it
Yeah, but the general belief was that if you think of
And again, I have to get I have to start ahead here. It's not testing versus checking. Of course
We've known for decades that some testing is purely
Confirmatory and some testing is investigative big
Whoop I get it to me. That's
Basic knowledge, I don't understand the excitement and glee over this distinction
But the gist of the feedback was that developers
programmers of code are
more or less
incapable of
Investigative testing they can only do checking or verification testing
Sure before I dive into that and some of the reasons people believe that way and when my reactions to that
I'd like to leave that part for some feedback from my trusted colleague
That's you Brett. Oh
I'm like, oh we have a guest today
So it's interesting you're asking me this question, you know just coming out of the holidays
I've drained all of all
Spent the last four weeks draining all of my hatred levels
And willingness to go into Hulk mode on stupidity
so, you know, it's it's
It means I'm able to refill that battery in this particular case. I'm coming from a more empathetic place
Right the testing versus checking discussion. This is I'm gonna go I'm gonna do a drive a psychological answer
right the that conversation and the tenant that
That
devs are incapable of
Doing this work
Right that that's where testing versus checking comes from that that's that's the point of that conversation. It's not a semantic one
It's it's one built around
Cementing
that
Separation of this work into a special specialized discipline is critical
right and as as I'm sure your talk called out even in the face of
data and evidence that
shows the contrary
Which at this point in time like this argument has been out for what two decades?
Right. There is so much. It doesn't take any effort at all to find evidence on the internet to the contrary here
so to me this is this is
Testing versus checking is
Is a belief system? It's a religion?
It's not
bounded in
in any sort of evidence based
System structure and it's it's an EQ argument
It's essentially I need people to hold this to be true
True because that's how I protect my identity
There you go. So I'm trying to find the right quote here and I'll edit out my keystrokes later
Yes, and yes, I think
it really comes down to
See if I can I have a story in my head here. I want to weave
I want to see if I can make it happen
The argument is a lot about those other people can't do my job
Which is really it's a flavor of my job is unique. I'm a specialist
We need specialists. I'm a snowflake specialist. My job's not going away
If it if if these things aren't distinct my job loses meaning
Right which comes back to I in one of the discussions on Twitter
What am I there's this one person that follows me on Twitter?
Every time he comes out
I know he's gonna go down one of these paths and I forget what I was talking about and he
his comment was and I
Think he meant to push my buttons, but I don't really care but he said
Alan I'm sure you were an expert at some things but you were not an expert at testing
And I said I wouldn't claim myself to be an expert at anything
I do have you know, I do have a lot of experience but a lot of practical experience and
And then later he or in that same thread he pointed out like for example
I don't think what you're doing with modern testing is doing any favors for testing. I'm completely paraphrasing
I know he won't listen to the podcast and it reminded me
It reminded me that the modern testing principles as we've said aren't modern. They aren't about testing
But Brent and I began talking about modern testing not to invent something
Not to talk about something new. We wanted to see people do it was not aspirational
It was talking about things that we were already
seeing
Yes, and how can you be against the notions?
I have in pushing things away or we have with modern testing when modern testing is just and
Which goes back to the whole this ties together with the
Please protect my job and differentiate checking versus testing. It's important for me because we started off talking about the podcast
Sex coming up on seven years ago
Because we wanted to talk about the changes that we were already
Seeing and give people some knowledge and mental tools and ideas to help navigate that change
Shoving your head under a rock for anything does not help
The the thing that you're saying hey modern testing is not doing anything for testing
We've we've had that conversation before I don't recall
Like on most things on this topic. I can have great confidence that we are at least 90% aligned
But when it comes to testing I'll state my view up front in
No way shape or form am I trying?
to help testing
What I am trying to do is help
number first and foremost is help improve the state of
quality in the world quality is and and
for the rest of my life
Going to be a
Important concern I grew up in tests, but right as as Whitaker one of my favorite snappy quotes is
All of this testing is getting in the way of quality
100% agreed I have
Very little interest in in any sort of thing of trying to protect testing. Okay, I
am
trying to
Grow and improve quality and I am
Trying to grow and improve the lives of those folks in a peer testing role and
Say look you don't have to follow us. You don't have to believe in these principles
But if there's anything we can ask you to do is
Look behind the curtain and
Observe what's there instead of what you believe is there?
Or as you put it get your head out from underneath the rock
Because the world has changed
So that aside and I can't find the quote so I'm gonna paraphrase it but one of Bolton's articles
I thought it was the one on checking versus testing
But after a while the articles all kind of read the same, but it makes
a point that I I'm actually writing an
Article on this to read to indirectly rebut this passively aggressively about this. There's a point he makes
Some
That I think is the gist of the problem here
Paragraph in question reads something like
when I'm
Developing software or writing this article as he says I'm in a builder's mindset
when I'm deeply testing or when I'm deeply investigating software, I'm in a
testers mindset and
Changing between these two mindsets is possible but extremely difficult and
And some other adjective as I read that it just didn't feel right and it reminded me
I like I was one of the first people to read mindset when it came out the idea that there is a growth mindset
And a fixed mindset. Yeah, and that took me back to of course Drucker came up with the term knowledge worker
But it reminded me, you know, Dan pink is famous for Drive
But the book if I believe the one right before that called a whole new world or something
It's about it's really about the rise of knowledge workers in the industry when I read that
I realized that all these arguments folks are making about well testing is very special because you have to think and learn at the same
time and all these little things like that all described
Knowledge work I realized Oh software testing software development
They're just knowledge work and they require to be good at them. It requires a growth mindset
What I believe has been confused in this in the definition of this article
I just I discussed on checking versus testing is checking is it a builder a builder and a tester are not separate
mindsets they're separate skill sets and
while they may require a mental shift I
Have seen enough and I'm talking about dozens if not hundreds of people who can pretty seamlessly shift between
building and evaluating and investigating whatever it is they're doing at the same time I
I honestly cannot count the number of people who can do that in a moment's notice without a
Without even a conscious shift it takes practice. Yeah
I know plenty of developers and I've been there myself where you get that tunnel vision you stop thinking about how things are going to work
But it doesn't take much to knock me out of it. I'm not even near the best in doing this
So I sort of fundamentally disagree that it requires a huge
Effort to shift from a builder's mindset to a tester's mindset
I believe those are skill sets and the more fluent you are on each skill
The more fluid you can be and moving between them accurately. I'm curious what your take is on that
So I'm absolutely in agreement
That on on builder versus testing like in the in the
An allergy where he talks about his blog post
Right. I think of it as
You know writer versus editor. Okay, and
And I think although the myriad blog posts I've written or the docs I've done okay. Yeah
In any way shape or form do I believe that I cannot I cannot fulfill
The editor role on my own content
No, I absolutely can
Does it benefit from an objective observer?
You bet right? So for example, like you've seen my blog posts. I am NOT known for my Tersody
right and
If I had an editor, I'm fairly certain that like hey this
15 page paragraph you wrote and couldn't you express the same thing in three sentences
Right and it's that requires more effort
It does it does but if you hire an editor and that's sort of their job, right? They'll provide that effort
however, if you don't care
like in the case of a blog post
I'm not the best of my ability. I'm not gaining or losing
readers and and actually gaining or losing readers aren't even a goal the goal was
Get my ideas out on the internet, right? The
There are people that I have observed
that have a
They have a preference to stay tightly focused and if you ask them to change their focus
They can do it
But it's gonna take them time because once they're in a deep focus, it's hard to move over to me. That is a
symptom of being more of a fixed mindset than a growth mindset I
So that part of it I agree with you as well, but here I'm talking about something even deeper. It's essentially
So there are multiple ways to carve humanity often that into polar opposites, right? And in this particular one I
Have found that there are two types of folks obviously
Ones that have a preference to see all the details and then and then sort of build things up
Figure out okay. I got all these details. What does that mean? Okay, the other ones and here's where I think you and I align
Elton is we're more top-down. Hey, what's the goal? What's the goal? We're trying to achieve? Okay
How do we break that down and a lot of times our approach will lead while we're missing a bunch of stuff now
Are we then go? Oh, that's a get the fill. Let's get that funded blah blah blah
And in this case, I'm not gonna dispute that Mike
Has has a challenge flipping between these these mindsets or skill sets
Right if and I think in both cases it starts being a mindset
And my point is I think probably a lot of people have a problem. It's difficult to switch between those
It is a learned skill and if you practice it again as with some of the growth mindset as you should do
The more you do it the better you'll get at it. It's it's not it's not a fixed
Oh, this is always gonna take 15 minutes for me to do to a lot of work. I need to just stay in my in my niche
Yes
Here I am reminded of
When one way I used to describe my two boys
okay, and
The on certain topics my oldest
He very much identifies with what he is
What he is today and and there's an underpinning theme to him
That that's what he will always be
okay, and
He would go you can't tell me
You can't tell me that I can do this because I've never tried it before so he pivoted on these new experiences
He pivoted pessimistically up front my middle son pivots the other way
You can't tell me that I can't do this because I've never done it
but and so here I actually viewed that is probably more of a
of
Basically how your brain is is wired up front if you're a if you're a pessimist
And this is a hypothesis if you're a pessimist you may view
That
It's impossible
Whereas you and I go
We're more on change agents
Yeah, I picking something up and going a whole new direction is something we do on a daily basis
Is it pessimism versus optimism or just fixed mindset versus growth mindset?
It might be it might be fixing and growth right? I think that actually more aligns with the story I was saying
Yeah, I just don't like the idea that these
arbitrary things are mindsets
I do believe the mindset is one where you're and I believe all good knowledge workers are
On the growth mindset side of things. It's difficult to be a knowledge worker if you're a fixed mindset
So but the skill sets the ability to shift gears
Between different skill sets that you have that is difficult, but it is a learned quality and that's my point
Yeah, but I do think again
Where you stand
intrinsically upfront
Plays into it like one of my favorite Henry Ford quotes is
Whether you think you can or you think you can't
You're right
Yep, hundred percent hundred percent. Anyway, I I've been working an article for that. It's almost done. I thought about
You know, I should do a blog post again
Longer tangents on that on what we do with modern testing org
but in the short term, I'm doing an article for a
Test tool company. I said I do one for their website and they said I could write an opinion piece and I have this one
I have another one. I'm working on that. We'll talk about another time. I
Think maybe in 2021. I'll do a little bit more writing besides the five for Fridays. I think I'll find a
venue for that and get that going I
Love the five for Friday. So don't drop that. I got one coming out today. I got some I talk about my buds
I got some other things in there too, which I'm sure I'll get to so the other thing
I wanted to talk about and if you're on one of the three dot slack comm
Which costs exactly zero dollars to join
Maybe we should charge a dollar a year. No people wouldn't join. It's free. It will always be free
I posted a little bit of information about
Project delivery in my organ grants been busy and didn't get a chance to reply
But I just thought it was interesting and inspired some good some good feedback
But I think you'll have a different kind of feedback because of course you've helped me on the stuff before maybe about a year ago
exactly, but as you all know part of my job is
Managing delivery program management figuring out
Keeping track of dependencies between projects. Of course. I have a team now to do this as my org has grown
But looking at delivery what I want to do is make sure that
Maybe we haven't talked about the way we do estimates in my org
Estimates, of course is predicting the future. So maybe I should start with that one rule we have is
only
Only the dev leads only the dev team and the dev leads in particular can give an estimate for a date
product management isn't allowed to say how does
January 21st look or can you have a stomach January 21st? They get absolutely no say in the date of our estimate
is it absolutely no say
no say in the
One exception if we have something like GDPR where we have a deadline
Then they get to say but 99.9% of the time we avoid using the word deadline
So only devs can give estimates
the the next step which you're gonna wonder how do you ever ship is
We asked for a p50 estimate meaning is a 50% probability. They'll hit that date
Where does that come from? It is a balance between
Putting some thought into what you're doing before you begin to build it and not over planning my experience is that
If you go for a date, you have 50% confidence level in you're probably not gonna over plan
but you're probably gonna put some thought into what you're doing before you start and of course the
The Hubbard book how to measure anything. I have my own copy is a very good book
on deep diving into how well
Confidence levels which is what these are having a confidence level about
When something will be done will help you and and he has a brilliant chapter on
Exactly
Why you are doing what you're doing? Yeah
So p50 estimates by the dev team and then if they miss a date and someone called me out like every time like half
the time they're gonna miss a date, but our teams do retros pretty regularly, but
We ask if they're late on a date or even ridiculously early that in their retro
They cover that like what what didn't we know that we know now?
I look for output from those retros if the date is off by more than 20%
Just so I can look for general advice. I can give the org. So that's it. They give dates
they hit him or they don't in fact, they miss them half the time and
We try and learn from that. So given the size of our org and the size of our projects. Yes
Do they actually miss them half a time? Yep
Almost exactly so p50 are pretty good on right now our p50 as far as delay is that is one day?
For the year so half of our projects are done in one day or miss their date by one day
Half or or less half missed by one day or more. Okay. Good question though
I don't know if I put that in the data I posted there. So we finished about 350 projects across our org in 2020 and
a project worth defining is a
Chunk of work. It has to have a customer outcome or a customer impact
So it has to be it can be anything from available to customers
We'll track the rollout a little bit differently or it can be as small as an experiment
Where we may do something and then not go any farther because the experiment failed. So we track all those things and
One exception internal projects like something that's affecting some other team trying to get a customer deliverable
We track those because we want to be able to track dependencies and things like that. So
350 of those through the year
The range was anywhere from five days to five months on the estimate. Of course
My advice to teams is to try and make things shorter
anecdotally and historically I've seen six weeks as
Sort of a sweet spot as the as the upper limit because it's big enough to do something significant and small enough to see
the end from the beginning
definitely
Try and push things smaller if I can some projects end up being bigger because they can't have a customer outcome until more work's been
Done that's expected
originally, I had a goal of
Set while I had a goal that 75% of our projects would be six weeks or less
That p75 actually ended up being closer to eight and a half weeks as far as the delivery numbers go
This is where the interesting stuff came in
projects from one to three weeks
Huge sweet spot 97% of the projects that were originally estimate of that length of time shipped on time
Another almost the entire amount of the rest of them were within a week
That was it like if that was the project size
You were gonna be golden. We were closer on projects from three weeks to a month where
64% were on time and the mass but the the mass remainder of those were also only a week late
Okay, and just to be clear on time means on time or earlier, right?
No, actually we tracked on time because when I get that p50, right?
I want to make sure people weren't padding
So if someone was it was two weeks early on a project, I actually count that as a missed estimate. Okay, got it
So what's interesting is I have data for everything from a month and longer
But guess I think you have the data in front of you
But of our projects that were a month or longer and remember up to a month
65% on time a month or longer
Exactly zero projects shipped on time
What some so your other category was?
21 to 30 days and there are multiple months
That fit in 30 days. So what is there are multiple months that have 30 days? Yes
Yes, there are. Thank you. Good. I'm glad we're
Projects don't necessarily align on a month. So I'm not sure. No, I know I'm trying to so
What I'm trying to distinguish in my head you said over a month. So when you when you say over a month
What exactly do you mean? You mean 31 days or longer? Okay. All right
Got it
One thing if we bring Hawthorne effect in here
It it when or I shared this with the team and of course by doing that
I have wrecked that one to three week estimate because people will try and fit their estimates in there because they know they'll be on time and
Inevitably, they won't be they won't if I tell you that
If you're if you're what if your estimate is within one to three weeks, it's very likely to be on time
Wouldn't you as a dev lead in charge of that estimate think well, I said four weeks
But if I make it three weeks, it'll be on time
Yeah, there's a
Yeah, if they go that way
Yeah, you were on the risk right is
right cuz then
Yeah, if instead though they say
Hey, if it goes beyond four weeks, maybe I shouldn't
Entirely trust myself and rethink this that might that would be a beneficial output here
But yeah, if they take the intellectual lazy approach, yeah, I expect to see I don't think they'll be fun to call out
Yeah, that I may I may skew future data by showing current data
Yeah, that this is one of the reasons why I like Fibonacci sequences and plenty poker though
Right at your data
Because it was run as a semi objective experiment. It doesn't surprise me that it kind of aligns with
The the reasoning behind that that the bigger the project
the the more
you actually
Don't really know the estimate because it's too much complexity for
people to handle up upfront and
And also the bigger the project the more likely there's there's going to be the the oh shit gotcha in the middle
Discovered in the middle that wasn't planned for well the interesting
statement I can make going forward because we have new projects start every week and
Things the way we track stuff is when we commit to something like we're gonna do this or we say active planning has begun
That is a planning phase that the result of that is it is the project moves from planning into in progress
And there's a date assigned to it or that p50 estimate is done
The purpose of our planning is to be able to come up with the p50 estimate. That's the output of our planning process
Okay
Last year we had roughly a some glance again numbers here a third
Little less of our maybe a third or so of our projects were original estimate was six weeks or longer
Knowing what I know now
I know every single one of those p50 estimates is wrong actually the I can go farther than that because by
definition almost every single p50 estimate is wrong
but I know when you have the longer the project is I know this anecdotally as many of us have forever is
Your as your longer estimates are more likely to be wrong
I have some significant data now that shows me that your longer estimates are wrong
So the work then is not to just acknowledge that and pad that I don't want them to pad it. I think
Remember my goal of p50 estimate is I think it's the sweet spot between
knowing enough to get going and not over planning I
think my takeaway is on these larger projects that they are being under planned a little bit and
It's a fine line because it's certainly possible to over plan these things and still miss the date
But from the retro stuff I have I do know that those dates are being missed because of an unrecognized dependency
Even simple things like not taking vacations or holidays into account
When you do the original estimate
Right in and of course with a longer estimate that's more of a risk
Absolutely one of the things though. It's interesting that you concluded that that there's insufficient planning
Because I don't think that I honestly don't think that's the case because even if you spent the extra time on planning
Shit changes I can tell cuz again I get I get information from a retro on anything
It's more than 20% over the original estimate and it really comes down to didn't account for some risk
Whether that risk could have been known up front is questionable
But we did but basically comes down to why was it late?
We didn't account for some risk or some set of risks right and the larger the project the more likely of
That being the case is true, right? Because you can't you don't know what's gonna happen
I don't I'm having so many meetings this week where I don't remember what I said in December
That I don't know how I would ever manage a six-week project
Yeah, it could be age could be age. I was gonna say wait till you get to be my age
It just gets worse Alan. Yeah, remember I'm older than you
Only physically correct
but I'm curious about is I
Don't think moving forward with this idea that these things are being under
Under planned is is the right way to go. Why was it not your your initial statement saying?
Hey, these guys need to work
through how to
These ones with the larger projects, how do we keep the aspect that is something that still has customer impact
but so does
Really start to scale back on the internal definition of an MVP
Yeah, it could be some of that too to be clear what I what I meant by under planned
It's just again because I have that data from retros. It's
They're missing
Recognizing risks some of which could be done during the planning phase of the project
But absolutely a bigger thing to work on or at least an equal thing to work on with the team is how to take this
Eight this 10-week project and break it down into multiple pieces that each can have a customer outcome
Or a customer impact right right the one thing I really like about what you've done here is you allow
different projects to take different time ranges, right one of the things that's a problem with with Kanban a lot of times
Right is they want each ticket to have a customer outcome and take no more than two weeks
well, sometimes I mean I've in it hasn't it occurs rarely but
That can be a challenge. It can be a full
half-day planning event figuring out
What to cut what the scope out in order to make a two-week timeline
Right and and then it walk you walk away with
But all we're doing is we're splitting the work between two tickets because we're gonna do both of this work
Ticket number one is gonna be this and ticket number two is gonna be that so
Why did we even spend all this planning time? Yeah, I don't want I don't want this to be gained like that
And I don't know if you've read shape up the book by base camp. It's nope it is
Good, but I think too prescriptive one of the things they mandate that book what's worked for them
Which is great. And again, I don't think they're pushing it because everyone's context is different take it with a grain of salt
but their stance is
Every project is six weeks long
That that's a horribly brief summary of the book
I think there is a lot to that because anecdotally I found there's a pretty good sweet spot at six weeks for making a
Significant impact and being able to hit those dates, but
my data shows that a little shorter is better and
what and again, like you said what I found is
When we're sometimes we have to do longer projects and it's the length is fine there
I do I am gonna push again this year to get the
bulk of the projects get that p75 or p80 number of project length to be under six weeks or six weeks or under
Maybe even less but with with with your data
Like I'd be pushing for three weeks. I think I could do p50 at three weeks
I have to think about this. I have to float it around for all in my head, but
Anyway, but the interesting thing is is I've mentioned
probably on this podcast
years ago
When I was at Microsoft and doing we didn't call it DevOps
Basically when I ran DevOps for teams is that I never had as much control over quality is when I ran this infrastructure and tools team
As I did ever in a quality manager or test architect or quality position
what I've discovered in the last 18 months is
Never have I had more control and more influence on quality for our customers
then when I
was in charge of
Infrastructure tools analysis and delivery of our software products
It's fascinating. I think it's part. I think delivery is part of quality. I think I
Didn't have to get a new skill set or change
Mindset in order to do this
I just had to care about quality be not be afraid to learn and try new stuff and it's been a fascinating little journey
You had to apply
Your existing mindset to a new problem. Sure. Yes, exactly it. It's thinking which by the way is
You may have heard this
This is where new ideas come from
Favorite authors
Where good ideas come from from Steven?
What's Steven's last name? Oh
something Steven, dude
Yeah, we're good ideas come from you look that up a very good book
I've read his entire catalog Johnson Johnson Stephen Johnson
Who I got to meet once like I have his autograph on a book somewhere. Oh
sweet
That was one of the advantages working at Microsoft as he actually had
Sort of industry luminaries just show up and give free talks
Yeah, I I mean I have a book at home
by Daniel Kaufman who's a
Nobel laureate and I have his I have an autograph book by him, right?
Yeah, I I miss that actually
Not HR
It was research MSR MSR. Yeah MSR. They had this recurring series and it was for me
It was fantastic because they it actually didn't even matter who was coming and talk
because
New ideas come from old ideas coming together and and it was a one one hour a month
Where I would be swimming in a pool of ideas. I may or may not have ever heard of before
I'm surprised that Microsoft isn't doing like regular teams events with those folks, but sure during pandemic
like we've had a lot of guest speakers everything from
inspirational speakers to
Magicians and musical groups and comedy comedians
Give like zoom calls. They're like once a month. We have a big zoom meeting with all kinds of fun entertainment
There might be teams doing that
They're not inviting me
And as you well know that could be for entirely different reasons I can I can probably put in a good word for you
I did a science team. Oh
Sure
Stocks at 146. Oh, I forgot you guys went public
Yeah, I
Hope you're not looking at the Microsoft stock. I'm not okay that that's probably good for your sanity. Is it super high?
Yeah, just last five years. I wonder I wonder what my I don't remember how many options
I left on the table when I left what was the date that you left? Oh
It was almost exactly four years ago Barack Obama and I both quit our jobs on the same day
So January 17th
January 17th. Yeah
So far the stock has only gone up
Four times since that all right, it's came I'd be I'd be dead if I wouldn't have survived
I think you would have I don't think I would have survived
You are absolutely you're right. You know what? I'm gonna practice my EQ. You're right it turned into
This horrible mess that you tell them if they give me all my stock back
I'll come back for six months just long enough for it to vest and then I'll quit again
Yeah
You're not at 55. So you'd probably wait. I am. Oh, are you now?
I'm at the magic age. I if I would have stayed till now I could have quit and been rich. I
Thought you were only three years older than me. No, I just turned double nickel in December
Just before our last podcast. I'm sure we talked about this. No, we did
I'm I'm about to turn 51
But for some reason I had in my head that you were three years old or not four now. I was born in 65
Now aren't them?
Let's let's call it a day good good round of topics. Thanks for listening in
I'm gonna go off to my next meeting but a good seeing you happy new year. Happy new year to the three happy to have you
on board
One of the three dot one of the three dot slack calm. There's an invite up on modern testing org
I think that's it. All right. Thanks break. See you. Bye everyone